Spain Norway and Ireland have become the
latest countries to officially recognize
a Palestinian State they join 143 other
UN member nations to do so the move has
been welcomed in Gaza and the West Bank
but criticized by
Israel the Norwegian Spanish and Irish
flags unfolded and flying alongside that
of South Africa outside municipal
buildings in the West Bank it's a
tribute to the three Western new
European nations that gave their
official recognition to a Palestinian
State first came the formal announcement
from
Madrid at the meeting of the Council of
ministers that will be held today the
government of Spain will approve the
official recognition of Palestine as a
state then in Ireland's parliament in
front of the Palestinian Ambassador came
the nod from
Dublin we here in Ireland we see you we
recognize you we respect you and today
Ireland for recognizes the state of
Palestine thank you T outside the
Palestinian flag was raised beside that
of Ukraine and the European
Union and shortly thereafter the
announcement came from Oslo
2 the government has decided that Norway
will recognize the state of Palestine
Norway's recognition will come into
force on May 28th
it's a decision that has had
repercussions across Europe and Beyond
in Paris an MP brandished the
Palestinian flag in Parliament during
questions to the foreign
Ministry he was accused of provoking the
assembly and received a 15-day
suspension it's the highest penalty
possible under the national assembly's
rules of procedure there were similar
scenes in Rome as leftwing MPS waved the
Palestinian flag during a speech by one
of their colle
the news has been widely welcomed in
Gaza we are happy with the Nations that
stood with us and recognized the state
of Palestine we hope that all nations
will stand with us and put pressure on
Israel to end the
war many in the West Bank
concurred it's an excellent development
it gives us complete Freedom a
recognized country our own currency it
unites us so that we can escapee the
occupation the recognition brings hope
to some Palestinians but many obstacles
still remain nonetheless other European
nations are expected to
follow with us in the studio now is
Martin Koba retired German ambassador
and former German representative with
the Palestinian authorities he's now a
member of diplomats Without Borders Mr
cobler thank you so much for taking the
time and coming on the show today so
these three European States recognizing
Palestinian statehood is that a symbolic
move without much consequence or could
this really give new momentum to the
push for peace in the Middle East no I
do think it's much more than a symbolic
move only uh of course there are no
immediate practical consequences the war
will go on and it will not change the
situation immediately However the fact
that Norway the father and mother of the
Oslo process recognizes the U now the
statute of Palestine is an important
step and don't for get we shouldn't
forget that 140 states in the United
Nations they recognized Palestine as a
state the permanent representative of
Palestine is sitting in front of a name
plate state of Palestine in the UN so it
is important that also a few European
States Sweden and some East European
States already did it um they
recognized Palestine as a state um but
I'm a little bit worried that it's not a
joint European decision exactly because
Germany for example is a lot more
careful saying that recognizing
Palestinian statehood could actually
send in the way of Peace how do you feel
about that well Germany is of the
opinion that the two-state solution is
the only way out of the war right now
and we have been seeing this for the
last 30 years now um the Oslo process
was set up in 93 and and everybody
remembers the Rose Garden with Clinton
and raat and prime minister Rabin being
being present um and it was supposed to
be a what five years transition period
and then there should be a final
solution however as we all know 30 years
passed since 1994 and not so much
happened on the contrary the situation
got worse the isolation grew there is a
Palestinian Authority which is corrupt
uh there's an Israeli government which
uh is well gradually
expanding the settlers the settlements
in the uh in the occupied territories in
Palestine and these were not good
developments and now we have a new
situation that's why to get new Dynamic
into the well not peace process in the
political process I don't dare to speak
of a peace process right now but into
the political process and avoid the
mistakes of Oslo I think this is the
game of the day what were the big
mistakes of Oslo well the big mistake of
Oslo was I think that the end status was
not fixed the end status after five
years years was subject to negotiations
where are the borders of a state what's
to do with the refugees where is the
capital how is the water distribution
all these questions were subject to
negotiations until well the end of the
uh of the transition process and it
never happened so why not putting the
pyramid just on top and determine the
end status now as the German government
says two states will be the solution for
the security of Israel and this is also
emanating from the what we call from the
well how to say historic
responsibility of Germany to provide
security for Israel but security for
Israel is also the security for the
Palestinians there can be no security
for Israel without ending the isolation
of the Palestinians without without
having a political process which is
worth the name yeah I want to talk about
the issue of security because um
Israel's foreign minister has accused
Spain of quote being complicit in
inciting genocide against Jews and war
crimes by recognizing Palestinian
statehood what do you make of that
rhetoric no I think we have to look to
the Future now it's very clear that both
sides have rethoric which are not
conducive for bringing a political
process ahead so I never use the word
genocide or aparte or whatever I I think
we should go back to look at the to the
legal status of everything yeah and not
and not indulge in in political
political propaganda here from from all
sides I think it's good if we go back to
the international law there are two
levels there is of course the right of
self-defense for the Israelis after the
brutal attack of Hamas but there is also
the principle of proportionality so
let's discuss about proportionality the
international Court the other day said
stop the Rafa actions because it's not
proportional under international law so
let's go back to Legal systems and let's
take emotions as much as it's possible
out I understand the well the fear and
and the the anger and of of Israelis and
also the the pain of those who still
have hostages in in Gaza imagine but I
also understand a close friend of mine
Palestinians in Gaza he lost 31 members
of his family there are in the meantime
more than
35,000 dead and
80,000 injured in Gaza now this is all
something which which I understand that
you cannot demand I mean just uh strip
your your whole um strip yourself of
emotions but let's go to the legal
system the occupation of the West Bank
the isolation of the of the Gaza Strip
the
um well also individual responsibility
of Hamas and Israeli leaders I think the
international criminal court decision
the international crimin criminal court
as such is one of the biggest
achievements we had in the outgoing last
century that individuals independent of
whether they are terrorists or whether
they are heads of States like Mr Putin
or uh or or others here that they are
really accountable for what they are
doing let's let's pick some of the
decisions that that you pointed at there
apart the icj ordered the Israeli Army
halt all military activity in Rafa
Israel has pressed on nonetheless
defying that order why does Israel think
that they can get away with that and can
well this you better ask Israelis here
and not not you know the quite well well
I I think um I'm of the opinion that if
we have an international Court ruling
and this court is an organ of the United
Nations everybody has to has to stick to
to what they say and Israel should
follow what they say there are others
now
genocide uh kind of um proceedings now
applied for by the by the south a
I think if we agree theal field that we
have interal courts that we accept their
decisions we also have to implement them
but it's of course I agree a weakness of
international law if the court orders
Putin you have to withdraw from Ukraine
and he just doesn't do it so what to do
now and it's the same uh with with
Israel I um don't like that in that that
representatives of these States they do
not follow the international order the
international order nowadays is in
dissolution in a way nobody agrees on
well legal Norms anymore so really and
and I think there is a consequence
beyond the icj and the consequence
beyond the international criminal court
independent of Israel that if states do
not follow it further erodes the
international order which is not good
for the International System as a whole
yeah there's so much more I want to talk
to you about but I think we're running
out of time um I want to talk about your
recent visit to Israel and the
Palestinian territories um you know the
region very well what struck you most
what did people tell you what surprised
you maybe going back there well I've
been following this conflict since um
well my uh youth so to say professional
youth I opened the German office in
Jericho immediately after the Oslo
agreement in '94 and stayed there until
and have been following events ever
since so what struck me most um is was
that Palestinians really despite of the
fact that I know their opinion polls
that they support Hamas um or many of
them high percentage for Hamas but they
are committed to live in peace with
Israel on the Palestinian side but I'm
convinced that it cannot be done under
what the Americans call revitalized PA
there needs to be a game Cher there
needs to be a time after Abu maazin
after president abas but also post netan
now uh and and here I see the pro
problem but this has to be decided by
the Palestinians and Israelis themselves
we cannot do it from outside the
Palestinians themselves have to decide
how their political structure will be
how Gaza and West Bank will relate to
each other the Israelis have to decide
which government to vote for who is
ending isolation engaging in a political
process not a peace process a political
process avoiding the mistakes of foso so
an argument for self-determination in
the entire region that was Martin kova
thank you so much thank you so much
pleasure to be
here as we've just been discussing Spain
Norway and Ireland joined some 140 other
countries and officially recognizing
Palestinian statehood but what exactly
does their recognition mean for the
everyday lives of Palestinians DW
correspondent Rebecca ritters reports
from rala in the occupied West
Bank here in rala the occupied West
Bank's biggest city and the state of
palestine's deao administrative Capital
news of this latest recognition has been
welcomed in a gesture of appreciation
the municipality has raised the flags of
Norway Ireland and Spain mayor Isa CIS
tells me why their recognition is so
meaningful it's a beautiful moment uh um
it's a moment of of hope uh it really
brought in our hearts hope for a better
tomorrow hope that the world is
listening to us hope that Palestine
still has a chance Norway Spain and
Ireland joined some 140 un countries
that have already recognize the state of
Palestine the movie is largely symbolic
but many say it has political meaning I
always say that we want to live for
Palestine we don't want to die for
Palestine um we we live for for for
earning our uh our right for for
self-determination and for for for
Independence we've been striving and
fighting for seven decades and what is
is happening now uh is that hope uh is
is being is being revived the
Palestinians we spoke to say that while
it may not affect their day-to-day lives
they hope it will lead to yet more
recognition the recognition of these
three countries affects the whole world
it highlights our cause that the land is
ours our rights our reality so they can
stand with us so we can overcome the
brutal
occupation the countries that have
recognized Palestine are making the
voice of young Palestinians reach
everyone young Palestinians will have a
voice in
Europe we don't live in Freedom Spain
and the other countries recognition
might make the occupation feel weaker
and countries that stand with it might
come to our side and hopefully recognize
us
too despite the signal of Hope for pal
Palestinians many things stand in the
way of a fully fledged Palestinian State
one major obstacle is the Jewish
settlements like that one you can see on
the hill behind me they're considered
illegal under international law but
they're dotted all over the occupied
West Bank making a contiguous
Palestinian State almost impossible
another obstacle is the lack of a
unified Palestinian leadership and the
ongoing war in
Gaza another major obstacle is a lack of
political will from
Israel Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu condemned the move by the
three countries saying it was like
handing out a reward for
terrorism he's long fought to keep the
two-state solution off the negotiating
table I I think the biggest obstacle to
piece is that Israel has gotten so use
to being able to flout international law
do whatever it wants get away with it
that people don't take seriously the
need to think about what is a realistic
outcome with the Palestinians and
therefore if there is no such thinking
then people go along the lines of well
maybe you know we have to remove them
permanently the leaders of Norway
Ireland and Spain say their decision was
made to promote a peaceful solution for
Palestinians here the move constitutes
further recognition for their decades
long struggle for statehood